Record of CHANGES in the GMA Package

In 2.1:

* Reorganization of the tools contained with the package.  Several 
tools were moved to their respective packages (axis,train).

* Removal of precision limitations that were imposed in past versions
to ensure consistency with the older Perl based GMA codeset.


In 2.0:

* GMA has been ported to java!  The porting process revealed several
bugs in the former Perl version, which have been fixed. Requires java
version 1.4.x or higher.

* GMA now has a webpage, and an online bugzilla-based bug reporting
system. Resources such as tools, config files, stop lists, etc., are no
longer distributed with GMA.  Instead they are separately downloadable
from the website. 

* All language file manipulation is now done at the byte level, rather
than the character level, to avoid encoding issues.

* GMA no longer performs any text normalization.  Processes such as
lowercasing and diacritic stripping have been factored out into axis
generators.

* GMA no longer accepts axis files with POS tags.

* Implemented traditional switch syntax using preceding 
"-" or "+", primarily for use with the condor java universe.

* Added capability to use a serialized tralex:  if the translation 
lexicon file ends in .serial GMA will assume you are supplying it with
a serialized file.  All other files are assumed to be plain text.  To
put a translation lexicon into serial format use the Serialize.java 
program available on the website utilities and in the tools section of 
this package. 



In 1.3:

* Added auxiliaries to the English stoplist

* Corrected the overflow errors in GCalign

* fixed base case in string_lcs in SIMR.lib.pl

* tweaked point disambiguation logic in bestchain.pl

* added warning for invalid tralex entries in SIMR.ph


In 1.2.1:

Fixed some parameter names in older config files.


In 1.2:

* The "encumbered" part of GMA has been reimplemented, so the whole
package is now open source.  A bunch of file and directory renaming
resulted.

* HOWTO slightly updated and clarified.

* GMA no longer assumes that the user has write permissions in the GMA
directory tree, so it uses another location for temporary files.

* GMA no longer assumes that it is being run from the directory where
it lives.  It uses environment variables to find its sub-scripts.


In 1.1.2:

* Minor correction in documentation.

* Added default helper to standard package.

* Set default GMApath in validation testsuite.

In 1.1.1:

* Small rearrangement in directory layout

* Added code and data for validation test.


In 1.1:

* Added `crnl2nl` to util/

* Added troubleshooting section to HOWTO.

* Got rid of non-license; added simple T's & C's to README.

* Minor documentation updates.

* Moved mailing lists to NYU.

* Made GMA.csh a bit more flexible, as per Resnik's suggestions.
