
=pod

UplugWeb v0.1 - Frequently Asked Questions

=head1 UplugWeb v0.1

This is a collection of frequently asked questions and their answers
related to UplugWeb - the web interface to the Uplug tools.
L<http://uplug.sourceforge.net>


=head1 General


=head2 What is UplugWeb?

UplugWeb is the web interface of the Uplug corpus tools. Registered
users can use Uplug on-line with small-size corpora. UplugWeb can be
used to create and manage multi-lingual parallel corpora.


=head2 Where is it?

The original version of UplugWeb is installed at the Department of
Linguistics and Philology at Uppsala University: 
L<http://stp.ling.uu.se/cgi-bin/joerg/Uplug>
Other installations may exist elsewhere. Let me
(I<joerg@stp.ling.uu.se>) know if you see it anywhere!


=head2 How do I use it?

You may look at any public corpus in the collection (click on 
I<Public corpora>). You have to register first before you can use any
of the other features (click on I<Register now>). No personal data will be
given further to third parties!


=head2 Is it free?

UplugWeb is free for non-commercial usage. It is provided "as-is". No
warranties or guranaties are given. Read also the License Agreement
when registering to UplugWeb. This service may dissapear without prior
notice (hopefully not ;-))


=head2 Can I download UplugWeb and install locally?

Yes, you can! Go to L<http://uplug.sourceforge.net> and download the
uplug-package. Follow the instructions in uplug/web/INSTALL or other
information that is hopefully there soon.




=head1 Registration and User Managment

Links for registration and user management are collected in the
second menu (I<User management>) in the left column.


=head2 How do I register?

Registration is easy! Click on I<Register now> and fill out the form. Fields
marked with I<*> are required. Your e-mail adress will be used as your
UplugWeb user name. Click on the I<send> button at the bottom if
everything is ok and you agree to the license agreement. Hopefully,
this finishes your registration and you may now login to your UplugWeb
account by clicking on I<Login>.


=head2 I forgot my password!

Click on I<Lost Password> and type your e-mail adress that you used
for registration. The password will be sent to you by e-mail when you
click on the I<send> button.


=head2 How do I view user information?

Click on I<Uplug users> in the I<User management> menu. You may look
at user details if you click on I<info>. All registered users can do
that. The I<edit> function is not implemented yet.


=head2 How can I change my password?

Right now you can't! This will may be added in the next version.




=head1 Corpus Management

UplugWeb functions related to corpora and corpus management are
collected in the I<Corpus management> menu in the left column.


=head2 How do I create a corpus?

A corpus in UplugWeb is a collection of one or more documents. Each
document may have several translations. Click on I<Create new corpus>
for creating a new corpus (surprise ;-). You have to specify a unique
name for the corpus in your repository. The name has to be mo longer
than 10 characters using ASCII letters [a-zA-Z] and '_'. You may, of
course, have several corpora in your account! The corpus name will
appear in the list of your corpora (I<My corpora>). Check the
I<private> checkbox if you don't want your corpus to appear in the
collection I<Public corpora>. Public corpora can not be changed by
others but viewed and downloaded by everyone!

Initially, the corpus is empty. You have to add documents using the
I<add> link in the task list behind the corpus name.



=head2 How do I add documents to my corpus?

Use the I<add> link in the task-list behind the name of your corpus!
You will see this task list for each corpus in I<My corpora>. If you
click on I<add>, a new form will be opened. Corpus documents that you
submit have to be in PLAIN TEXT FORMAT! Any annotation will be ignored
and interpreted as common text. Choose the correct character encoding
format in the I<Encoding> option menu! Defaullt encoding is Unicode
UTF-8. All data submitted will be converted to UTF-8!

A document has to have a unique name in the corpus. It has to be
shorter than 16 characters using ASCII letters [a-zA-z], digits [0-9],
dots '.' and underscores '_'. 

There may be several translations of each document in the corpus. DO
NOT CHOOSE DIFFERENT NAMES FOR EACH TRANSLATION OF THE SAME DOCUMENT!
Translations may (should) have the same name as the original. Choose
the language of each document to distinguish them!

The local document itself is inserted in the I<Upload file>
field. Add the document to the corpus by clicking on the I<submit>
button.

The upload size is restricted. The total amount of POST-data is
limited. UplugWeb is intended for small-size corpora. However, you may
add as many documents as you want to each corpus.


=head2 How can I remove documents from a corpus?

Removing documents can be done with the I<remove> function in the
task-list that you can find for each corpus. Click on I<remove> and
the corpus manager will be in "remove-mode" (you can see the mode by
checking which of the tasks is not linked anymore in the
task-list). Each document is represented by a link from the language
identifier (e.g. 'en' for English) behind the document name. Click on
the link that corresponds to the document you would like to remove. BE
CAREFUL! CLICKING ON THE LINKS REMOVES IMMEDIATELY THE CORREPSONDING
DOCUMENT!


=head2 How can I remove the complete corpus?

Click on I<remove> in the task-list behind the corpus name. A new for
should appear in your browser. Check the checkbox that you are really
sure to remove the entire corpus and click on I<submit>. The corpus
will be deleted!


=head2 Can I restore data that I removed by accident?

Yes you can! Click on I<Restore documents> and click on the links in
your collection of removed documents.


=head2 Can I download documents from my repository?

Not directly. But you can send documents to your e-mail adress. Select
the I<send> mode in the corpus manager (in the task-list for one of
your corpora) and click on the document you want to be sent to you.


=head2 Can I look at my documents?

Of course! The "view mode" is the default mode in the corpus
manager. Otherwise you may always activate it by clicking on I<view>
in the task-list for each corpus. If you click on document links the
corresponding document will be shown in your browser. The display
style is different depending on the type of document you're looking
at. For some document types you will have the choice between different
display styles (e.g. for word alignment files). Alignment files can
even be modified/revised. Check further down!


=head2 Can I show larger/smaller parts of the document at once?

No! Not right now.


=head2 Can I edit my documents?

No! Not right now. This is potentially dangerous and therefore not
supported (yet). For alignment files it is possible to modify the
links using the edit-functions provided for these file types. See
further down.



=head2 Can I edit/modify sentence alignment files?

Sentence alignment is done automatically and, therefore, often
includes errors. If you open a sentence alignment file (I<sent>) from
the view mode you will see linked up/down arrows around each sentence
ID. Use these links to move the attached sentence up or down. You can
do this using both display styles I<text> and I<xml> (default).

Editing alignment files link by link is
not very convenient if there are many follow-up errors. Check the file
first before starting to rervise the alignment. Sometimes the
alignment is totally out of control at some point and it is not worth
doing the revision by hand in this way. Modify your
original files instead and re-run the sentence aligner! (Check the
section on sentence alignment in the description of the task manager)


=head2 Can I edit word alignment files?

Open the chosen word alignment file in view mode and click on I<edit>
in the list of display styles. Word alignments will now be shown as
link-matrix with checkboxes for each word pair. Change the links as
you wish and click on the I<change> button if your satisfied. Go to
the next sentence pair by clicking on I<next>.


=head2 Can I word-align bitexts by hand?

Yes you can!
Open a sentence alignment file (the once called I<sent>) in view mode and 
click on I<wordalign>. The system will create an empty word alignment
file if there is no word alignment file for this language pair
already. Otherwise it will open the existing one and you may edit it.



=head2 What is the I<info> mode?

There is some more information for each document (e.g. status
infomation). Click on I<info> to activate the info mode and select the
document by clicking on the corresponding link (if you are in the info
mode).

=head2 What is I<preprocess>?

The I<preprocess> task automatically adds pre-processing processes to
the queue for all documents from the chosen corpus that are still in
plain text format. Documents will be pre-processed with
language-specific pre-processing modules if available. Otherwise, it
will add the I<basic> pre-processing modules that adds simple XML
markup and runs the sentence splitter and the general
tokenizer. Documents that have been finished will be sent to you. Look
att the process queue in the I<task manager> to track queued processes.

=head2 What is I<align>?

The I<align> task automatically adds all sentence alignment processes
to the process queue possible for the chosen corpus. Each document
with one or more translations will be sentence aligned. All possible
alignment pairs will be considered (only in one direction). NOTE:
documents have to be tokenized before they can be aligned! There is a
quick-task for doing this for all documents automatically:
I<preprocess>. Otherwise, use the pre-processing functions described
in the section about the Task Manager.

=head2 What is I<index>?

The I<index> function can be used to create CWB
(L<http://www.ims.uni-stuttgart.de/projekte/CorpusWorkbench/index.html>)
index files from the chosen corpus. All tokenized document will be
indexed. Sentence alignments will be included as well. Indexed corpora
can be searched using CQP and the I<CWB Query> function in corpus
management menu. Note that the entire corpus will be in one index per
language. Documents will not be seperated from each other!


=head2 What is I<query>?

By clicking on I<query> you will get to the CWB query form. From here
you can search your indexed corpus data.


=head2 How do I use the CWB in UplugWeb?

First of all you have to index one or more corpora in youre
repository (use I<index> in the corpus task-list). You can view all
indeces and query each corpus by selecting I<CWB Query> from the
corpus management menu. For each indexed corpus you will have a list
of indexed sub-corpora linked to their language (using 2-letter
language ID's). Select the sub-corpus you are interested in by
clicking on the corresponding link. Now you should get the query form
you may use for searching the data. Sentence alignment can also be
searched (if available). Select the languages you want to include in
the column to the right. More information about queries can be found
elsewhere (....).





=head1 Task Management


The task manager is used to start Uplug processes and to manage
running processes. New processes will be queued and executed when
possible. There are several queues managed by UplugWeb:

=over

=item * todo: 

the list of processes to be done

=item * queued: 

processes that have been taken by a server and wait for
their execution

=item * working: 

processes in progress

=item * done: 

finished processes (only recent once)

=item * failed: 

processes that failed at some point (can be restarted)

=back



The I<Main> menu contains several tasks that can be run by the system:



=over

=item * pre-processing: 

All kinds of pre-processing tasks such as basic XML
markup, sentence splitting, tokenization, language-specific tools
(tagging, chunking)

=item * tagging: 

POS tagger for several languages

=item * parser/chunker: 

Syntactic parsers/chunkers for several languages
(currently only for English and Swedish)

=item * sentence aligner: 

Sentence alignment using Gale&Church's
length-based alignment algorithm

=item * word aligner: 

Word alignment using the Clue Aligner and other tools
(e.g. GIZA++)

=back




=head2 How do I tokenize a document?

Go to I<pre-processing> and choose either the I<basic> pre-processing
module or one of the language specific pre-processing modules if you
have an appropriate document in your corpus. There will be a form for
choosing documents from the corpus if you have appropriate once in
your corpus. Click on the I<add jobb> button for sending the job to
the process queue. (Note: Select the correct corpus up at the top of the
page if you have several corpora in your repository!)

The pre-processor will overwrite the original text-document and
replace it with the tokenized XML version. It will also be sent by
mail if the process is finished.

You can also run the pre-processor on all documents in a corpus by
clicking on the I<preprocess> taks in the corpus manager. Check the
section on I<corpus management> above!


=head2 How do I POS tag a document?

Tokenize the document first. Then, choose the tagger from the
I<tagger> menu and select the appropriate document from the
corpus. You can switch between corpora at the top of the page. The
old document will be overwritten and the result will be sent to you by
e-mail.



=head2 How do I sentence-align 2 documents?

Go to the I<sentence aligner> and select the 2 documents you want to
align. They have to be tokenized first! Add the job to the queue by
clicking on I<add job>.

The sentence
aligner uses "hard boundaries" (paragraph breaks and page breaks) to
synchronize the alignment process. They may cause problems (follow-up
errors) if they are
not detected correctly. A simple solution is to remove all double
empty lines from the text files before submitting them to the UplugWeb
repository.

You can also run the sentence aligner for all possible document pairs
ini a corpus by clicking on the I<align> task in the corpus
manager. Check the section on I<corpus management> above.


=head2 How do I word-align a bitext?

Go to the I<word aligner> and select one of the three possible
settings: I<basic>, I<advanced>, and I<GIZA++>. After that select one
of the sentence aligned corpora in your repository (you have to
sentence align first!). Click on I<add job> to add the alignment
process to the queue.

NOTE: Word alignment takes quite
some time even for small corpora! Be patient! (This is a Uplug problem)

More information about word alignment will be added later on.




=head1 Local Installation

You can install your own UplugWeb server! Download the uplug package
from L<http://uplug.sourceforge.net> and follow the instructions in
I<uplug/web/INSTALL> and other documentation if available ....



=cut
